README.md, before:

# ClickDown

A fast and responsive ClickUp desktop client built with Rust.

## Features

- **Fast & Native**: Built with Rust and iced GUI framework for native performance
- **Workspace Navigation**: Browse workspaces, spaces, folders, and lists
- **Task Management**: View, create, edit, and delete tasks
- **Document Viewing**: Read ClickUp documents with Markdown rendering
- **Offline Cache**: SQLite-based caching for instant reloads
- **Dark Theme**: Easy on the eyes for extended use
- **Responsive UI**: Clean, modern interface with sidebar navigation

## Requirements

- Rust 1.70+ (edition 2021)
- ClickUp API token (get from ClickUp Settings → Apps → ClickUp API)

## Building

```bash
# Debug build
cargo build

# Release build (optimized)
cargo build --release
```

## Running

```bash
cargo run
```

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── main.rs              # Application entry point
├── app.rs               # Main application state (Elm architecture)
├── api/
│   ├── mod.rs           # API module
│   ├── client.rs        # ClickUp HTTP client
│   ├── auth.rs          # Token management
│   └── endpoints.rs     # API endpoint definitions
├── models/
│   ├── mod.rs           # Models module
│   ├── workspace.rs     # Workspace, Space, Folder, List types
│   ├── task.rs          # Task types
│   └── document.rs      # Document types
├── ui/
│   ├── mod.rs           # UI module
│   ├── sidebar.rs       # Navigation sidebar
│   ├── task_list.rs     # Task list view
│   ├── task_detail.rs   # Task detail panel
│   ├── auth_view.rs     # Authentication screen
│   └── components/      # Reusable UI components
├── cache/
│   ├── mod.rs           # SQLite cache module
│   └── schema.rs        # Database schema
└── config/
    ├── mod.rs           # Configuration management
    └── storage.rs       # Config file locations
```

## Architecture

ClickDown uses the **Elm Architecture** via the iced framework:

- **Model**: Application state (`ClickDown` struct)
- **Update**: Message handling (`Message` enum)
- **View**: UI rendering (`view` methods)

## Configuration

Configuration is stored in:
- **Linux**: `~/.config/clickdown/`
- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/clickdown/`
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\clickdown\`

Files:
- `config.toml` - Application settings
- `token` - API token (restricted permissions)
- `cache/cache.db` - SQLite cache database

## API Usage

The application uses the ClickUp API v2:
- Base URL: `https://api.clickup.com/api/v2`
- Authentication: Personal Token or OAuth

### Supported Endpoints

| Resource | Operations |
|----------|------------|
| Workspaces | List |
| Spaces | List |
| Folders | List |
| Lists | List |
| Tasks | List, Create, Update, Delete |
| Documents | List, View |

## Roadmap

### Completed ✅
- [x] Workspace navigation (Workspaces, Spaces, Folders, Lists)
- [x] Task list viewing with status and priority indicators
- [x] Task create/update/delete operations
- [x] Document viewing with Markdown rendering
- [x] SQLite caching layer
- [x] Configuration and token management
- [x] Dark theme UI

### In Progress / Planned 🚧
- [ ] Keyboard shortcuts (Ctrl+N for new task, Ctrl+S to save, etc.)
- [ ] Task filtering and sorting (by status, priority, due date, assignee)
- [ ] Background sync mechanism (periodic refresh)
- [ ] Task comments viewing and creation
- [ ] Custom fields support
- [ ] Subtasks and checklists
- [ ] Task attachments
- [ ] Rich text editor for task descriptions
- [ ] Document editing
- [ ] System tray integration
- [ ] Desktop notifications
- [ ] Multiple window support
- [ ] Bulk operations
- [ ] Search functionality
- [ ] Activity log / history
- [ ] Time tracking
- [ ] Goal tracking
- [ ] Dashboard widgets
- [ ] Plugin/extensions system

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

Commit message:

Implement username/password authentication
- Replace token-only authentication with credential-based login
- Add LoginView component with username/password input fields
- Add authenticate_with_credentials() method to API client and trait
- Implement OAuth token endpoint for credential exchange
- Add credential authentication support to MockClickUpClient
- Update app.rs to use login state machine with credential messages
- Add tests for credential authentication success and failure scenarios
- Update README with authentication flow documentation
- Archive completed change: add-screen-ids

New files:
- src/ui/login_view.rs - Login screen UI
- src/ui/screen_id_overlay.rs - Screen identification overlay
- src/screen_id.rs - Screen ID types

Breaking changes:
- Users must now authenticate with ClickUp account credentials instead of manually entering API tokens

Co-authored-by: Qwen-Coder <qwen-coder@alibabacloud.com>

Co-authored-by: Qwen-Coder <qwen-coder@alibabacloud.com>

README.md, after:

# ClickDown

A fast and responsive ClickUp desktop client built with Rust.

## Features

- **Fast & Native**: Built with Rust and iced GUI framework for native performance
- **Workspace Navigation**: Browse workspaces, spaces, folders, and lists
- **Task Management**: View, create, edit, and delete tasks
- **Document Viewing**: Read ClickUp documents with Markdown rendering
- **Offline Cache**: SQLite-based caching for instant reloads
- **Dark Theme**: Easy on the eyes for extended use
- **Responsive UI**: Clean, modern interface with sidebar navigation

## Requirements

- Rust 1.70+ (edition 2021)
- ClickUp account credentials (email and password)

## Building

```bash
# Debug build
cargo build

# Release build (optimized)
cargo build --release
```

## Running

```bash
cargo run
```

## Authentication

ClickDown supports username/password authentication:

1. Launch the application
2. Enter your ClickUp account email and password on the login screen
3. Click "Login" to authenticate
4. Your API token is automatically obtained and stored securely for future sessions

**Note:** Credentials are only used during authentication and are never stored. Only the API token is persisted.

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── main.rs              # Application entry point
├── app.rs               # Main application state (Elm architecture)
├── api/
│   ├── mod.rs           # API module
│   ├── client.rs        # ClickUp HTTP client
│   ├── auth.rs          # Token management
│   └── endpoints.rs     # API endpoint definitions
├── models/
│   ├── mod.rs           # Models module
│   ├── workspace.rs     # Workspace, Space, Folder, List types
│   ├── task.rs          # Task types
│   └── document.rs      # Document types
├── ui/
│   ├── mod.rs           # UI module
│   ├── sidebar.rs       # Navigation sidebar
│   ├── task_list.rs     # Task list view
│   ├── task_detail.rs   # Task detail panel
│   ├── login_view.rs    # Login screen (username/password)
│   ├── auth_view.rs     # Token authentication (legacy)
│   └── components/      # Reusable UI components
├── cache/
│   ├── mod.rs           # SQLite cache module
│   └── schema.rs        # Database schema
└── config/
    ├── mod.rs           # Configuration management
    └── storage.rs       # Config file locations
```

## Architecture

ClickDown uses the **Elm Architecture** via the iced framework:

- **Model**: Application state (`ClickDown` struct)
- **Update**: Message handling (`Message` enum)
- **View**: UI rendering (`view` methods)

## Configuration

Configuration is stored in:
- **Linux**: `~/.config/clickdown/`
- **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/clickdown/`
- **Windows**: `%APPDATA%\clickdown\`

Files:
- `config.toml` - Application settings
- `token` - API token (restricted permissions)
- `cache/cache.db` - SQLite cache database

## API Usage

The application uses the ClickUp API v2:
- Base URL: `https://api.clickup.com/api/v2`
- Authentication: Personal Token or OAuth

### Supported Endpoints

| Resource | Operations |
|----------|------------|
| Workspaces | List |
| Spaces | List |
| Folders | List |
| Lists | List |
| Tasks | List, Create, Update, Delete |
| Documents | List, View |

## Roadmap

### Completed ✅
- [x] Workspace navigation (Workspaces, Spaces, Folders, Lists)
- [x] Task list viewing with status and priority indicators
- [x] Task create/update/delete operations
- [x] Document viewing with Markdown rendering
- [x] SQLite caching layer
- [x] Configuration and token management
- [x] Dark theme UI

### In Progress / Planned 🚧
- [ ] Keyboard shortcuts (Ctrl+N for new task, Ctrl+S to save, etc.)
- [ ] Task filtering and sorting (by status, priority, due date, assignee)
- [ ] Background sync mechanism (periodic refresh)
- [ ] Task comments viewing and creation
- [ ] Custom fields support
- [ ] Subtasks and checklists
- [ ] Task attachments
- [ ] Rich text editor for task descriptions
- [ ] Document editing
- [ ] System tray integration
- [ ] Desktop notifications
- [ ] Multiple window support
- [ ] Bulk operations
- [ ] Search functionality
- [ ] Activity log / history
- [ ] Time tracking
- [ ] Goal tracking
- [ ] Dashboard widgets
- [ ] Plugin/extensions system

## License

MIT

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.
